# Max Clique Problem
It is an untreatable problem for undirected, non-weighted graphs G=(V,E).

---

## Quick Recap

### Induced Subgraph - G[C]
A subgraph induced by a subset V'âŠ† V, <mark>G[V']</mark>, is a subgraph G' = (V', E') such that:
* V' âŠ† V
* E' **=** E â‹‚ V' x V'
    * All the edges from the subset must connect all the vertices in V'

We can also use G[V'] to express that is a subgraph induced by V'

### Complete Graph
A complete graph is a graph G=(V,E), where E = V x V
* E contains **all the possible edges** between the vertices in V.
* It is trivially a connected graph. Although the opposite is not true.
* The density is 1

Notation: a complete graph on **n vertices** is <mark>K(n)</mark>

### Connected Graph
A graph G=(V,E) is said to be connected i.f.f. there exists at least one path from u to v, for every u,v in E.
* In order to do this we need at least a certain number of edges for every graph.

Let G be an undirected graph G=(V,E), if G is also connected then:
* If G is connected -> |E|>=|V|-1
  * Necessary (but not sufficient) condition. The opposite is not necessarily true
* If deg(uâˆˆV)>= (n-1)/2 -> G is connected

### Clique
Let G be a graph such that, G=(V,E). A **clique** is a ğ¶ âŠ† V, a **subset of V where all the couples of edges 
are connected by an edge in E** ğ¶ = {ğ¶ âŠ† V | âˆ€u,vâˆˆğ¶ -> âˆƒ(u,v)âˆˆE}. 
* Any vertex inside the clique is connected with all the vertices inside the clique.
* If C is a clique, the induced subgraph G[ğ¶] is complete (the subgraph G restricted by C is complete).

### Maximal Clique
A clique is maximal if it is **not contained inside a larger clique**.
* âˆ„ clique D, CâŠ†D
* Maximal clique does not imply it is also a maximum clique

### Maximum Clique
If **|C|**, is the **largest out of all possible cliques cardinalities**.
* Maximum clique implies it is also a maximal clique. Opposite, not necessarily true.

