# Complexity Evaluation
Let's see how to evaluate the time complexity of an algorithm give its computations.

$$T(n)$$

Remember that we could have multiple classes of complexity, so in the end the **worst one** is the dominating one and we should remember that the complexity function behaves like the dominant term.

## Blocks
Sequence of multiple blocks: we analyze their complexities and then we sum them all.

```c++
{
    block_1{
        // O(f(n))
    };
    ...
    block_n{
        // O(z(n))
    };
}
```

$$T(n) = \mathcal{O}(f(n) + ... + z(n))$$

---

## Branches
Evaluating branches

```c++
{   
    // O(f(n))
    if( cond ){
        // O(g(n))
    }else{
        // O(h(n))
    }
}
```

$$T(n) = \operatorname{Max}\{ if, else \} + \mathcal{O}(f(n))$$

With $\operatorname{Max}\{ if, else \}$ as the branch which takes the largest time complexity

---

## Iterations
For iterations you need to focus on some aspects
* Is the cycle going to be executed exactly $n$ times? There can be times where the cycle can face a continuous reduction in terms of number of exectutions (i.e $n/2$ at each occurrence).
* Is there a function inside that changes the iteration term?
* 

### For Cycle
A for cycle executed exactly $k$ times

```c++
{
    //for i=1 to k
    for(int i = 1; i < k; i++){
        //O(f(n))
    }
}
```
$$T(n) = \mathcal{O}(k \cdot f(n))$$

### Nested For Cycle

A for cycle executed exactly $k \cdot m$ times 
```c++
{
    //for i=1 to k
    for(int i = 1; i < k; i++){
        //for j=1 to m
        for(int j = 1; j< m; j++){
            // O(f(n))
        }
    }
}
```

$$T(n) = \mathcal{O}(k \cdot m \cdot f(n))$$

### Nested For Cycle - with Dependence
The complexity here is dictated by `i` and it can vary multiple times: it might be either smaller or larger than $m \cdot k$. The inequality is more probable than the equality, but we have no clue a-priori.

```c++
{
    //for i=1 to k
    for(int i = 1; i < k; i++){
        //for i=1 to m(i)
        for(int j = 1; j< m(i); j++){
            // O(f(n))
        }
    }
}
```
$$T(n) =  (\sum_{i=1}^{k}m(i)) \cdot f(n) $$

### While

```c++
{
    // O(f(n))
    while(cond){
        // O(g(n))
    }
}
```
$$T(n) =  \mathcal{O}(N(n) \cdot [f(n) \cdot g(n)]) $$

with $N(n)$ as the maximum times the cycle is executed.

---