# How to visit a tree?
Visits allow us to access the information contained in the trees we are using.

> We assume the trees we are visiting are binary trees, but they can be generalized for any data structure.

| Visit      | Order                         |
|------------|-------------------------------|
| Pre-Order  | Root > L-Child > R-Child      |
| Symmetric  | L-Child > Root > R-Child      |
| Post-Order | L-Child > R-Child > Root      |
| BFS        | At each level, go from L to R |

---

## Generic Visit
This general type of visit helps understand how we can obtain different types of visits, by changing of data structure.

1. $S = \lbrace root \rbrace$
   1. Inserts the root inside a set $S$
2. While $S \neq \emptyset$ do:
   1. $S = S \setminus u$
      1. Extract a node $u$ from S
   2. Visit the node $u$
   3. $S = S \cup \text{children}(u)$
      1. Add the children of $u$ to $S$ 

```python
generic_visit(Node r)
    S = {r} # Inserts the root inside a set S
    while (S != EMPTY_SET):
        # Extract a node u from S
        # Visit the node u
        S = set_union(S, children(u));
```

### Theorem
The algorithm `generic_visit` applied to the root of a tree $T$ with $n$ nodes, takes 

$$T(n) = \mathcal{O}(n) \wedge S(n) = \mathcal{O}(n)$$

#### Demonstration 

Hypothesis: $T(insert) = T(delete) = \mathcal{O}(1)$

Demonstration:
1. A node will be inserted and extracted once from $S$. 
   1. By construction of the tree, we cannot go back to a parent node, starting from its children and iterating backwards.
2. The maximum possible count of iterations are limited by the count of nodes, which is the upperbound.
3. This means that the count of nodes represents an upperbound for the total space needed too.

---

## Depth First Search - Pre Order

$$Root \Longrightarrow \text{ Left Child } \Longrightarrow \text{ Right Child }$$

What happens here is that we start from the root and keep going deeper on the **left child side** until we manage to
explore the whole left subtree. Then, we pass to the right subtree.

We use a <mark>Stack</mark> 

### Iterative
1. Create an empty stack S
2. Push a node in the stack 
3. While the stack is not empty
   1. Pop the first node *u* from the stack
   2. Check if u is empty
   3. Push first right child
   4. Push left child (as last, so we can go in depth)

```python
DFS_visit_iter(Node r)
    Stack s = create_stack();
    push(S,r);
    while(not stack_empty(S))
        Node u = pop(s);
        if(u!= NULL)
            # Visit u
            push(s, u.right);
            push(s, u.left);
```
**Final Time Complexity**: T(n) = <mark>O(n)</mark>
* Push, Pop can be implemented in costant time

### Recursive
1. Start from a node
2. If tree is not empty
   1. 

```python
DFS_visit_rec(Node r)
    if(r != NULL):
        #Visit r
        DFS_visit_rec(r.left);
        DFS_visit_rec(r.right);
```
**Final Time Complexity**: T(n) = <mark>Θ(n)</mark>

ATTENTION: **Base Case** on Trees for Recursive Algorithms: Empty Tree.

---

## Symmetric Visit - In Order
Idea: Left Child > Root > Right Child

$$\text{ Left Child } \Longrightarrow Root \Longrightarrow \text{ Right Child }$$

Now things change, here we find the first recursive call on the left child. Subsequently,
we visit the root node, and then we have the recursive call on the right child.

We use a <mark>Stack</mark>

---


## Visit - Post-Order
Idea: Left Child > Right Child > Root

Firstly we have the first two recursive calls, respectively, on the left child and the
right child. Finally, we visit the root.

We use a <mark>Stack</mark>

---

## Bread First Search (BFS)
The name comes from the fact that our tree will be "cut like a loaf of bread".

We use a <mark>Queue</mark> 
* Since it follows a First In First Out principle. This means
that the first node inserted into the data structure, is the same whose children are taken to
begin with.
* We need to read for left to right (FIFO)

1. Visit Root
2. Enqueue Left Child;
3. Enqueue Right Child;
4. Visit on Dequeue;
5. Back to 2. with the next element of the queue which is popped out and deleted

```python
BFS_visit(Node r){
    Queue c = create_queue();
    enqueue(C,r);
    while(not queue_empty(c))
        Node u = dequeue(c);
        if(u != NULL)
            # Visit node u
            enqueue(C, u.left); # Which is the first processed
            enqueue(C, u.right);
```

**Final Time Complexity**: T(n) = <mark>O(n)</mark>
 * n being the count of the nodes
 * Enqueue, Dequeue can be implemented in constant times



